so I have just finished getting a
calibrated level of 83 DB right here at
the listening position by getting an
output calibrated noise output and then
adjusting the monitors 483 DV at the
listening position what I'm going to do
now is adjust the hardware input of the
microphone in order to get a zero DB on
the monitoring on the input and although
again like I said it's already I did
this beforehand i'm going to show you
that what that zero looks like and again
you're going to make the adjustment at
the microphone input so we already have
0 here we just need to make sure that we
get a zero back on the input
now I'm going to switch between the K 20
K 12 and k14 noise levels and show you
what the difference looks like on our
monitor input monitor we're at k twenty
right now and that k 20 again is at 59
right turn it back long
so I'm going to leave it at k14 and
you're going to see that we are now a 60
B too hot on the input monitor and then
when we will use that to adjust the
volume on our monitors the hardware
volume down 6 DB again just as we did
before
so now i have a calibrated level for
mixing and mastering pop records using
the k14 metering system um what again
what I've done is I've used a higher
noise source and I've mayalu used this
as a leveling monitor and I've adjusted
my monitors down 6 DB you'll notice that
I did that adjustment at the mixer
instead of the monitors themselves this
is because you're going to sometimes
want to be able to switch between these
things and the only thing that's
essential to know the only reason that
you're doing any of this is so that you
know what your what your calibrated love
listening level is so whereas before
using the k20 noise source my master
vault fader level was at 59 i'm now at
50 i hope you can see that ok so if i
want to mix and master a pop record i
need to fire up my workstation and my
hardware at a main output volume of
fifty percent on this mixer and my
levels will be perfect and it will like
i was explaining before no more guessing
games you can actually use the k-12
noise source which is a little bit
louder and then dial it down even more
if you wish to make your recordings even
louder but it's not necessary i
recommend staying quiet because the
person that's listening to your
recording can always turn it up but they
can never turn it back down so i
recommend that you use k14 and do this
process let me know if you have any
questions or if there are any specifics
about your setup that you need help with
i know not everybody has a DB meter or
an android tablet or anything like that
so if you have questions or need
recommendation
please let me know thank you